hi there i'm christian and you're
watching the devastory
this is the second video of the software
architecture series where i'm covering
core concepts in a practical way
if you haven't check out my other video
first just recapping from the previous
video
we are building an e-commerce site and
we have a basic layer architecture in
place
so at the time we started with the layer
architecture because we are covering the
maintainability aspect of the software
with that architecture we are also
able to deliver the functional
requirements that we need now it comes
to mind the question
will it scale
and we need to define what is exactly
what we need to scale do we need to
scale the number of concurrent
requests that we can handle or do we
need to scale the
amount of data that we are handling so
let's assume both
in the previous architecture let's
assume that we have all of this in one
server
so if we want to handle 100 users
concurrently that's fine
we can support it 1000 users probably
fine
50k users let's check but probably we
need to add more hardware
in this case this is called scale up or
vertical scaling
vertical scaling basically means to make
the nodes stronger right like if you
have one server make the server stronger
faster
adding more hardware basically make
optimizations on the software that would
allow it to
process more requests with the same
number of resources in one server
now let's say we want to handle 10
million users at the same time
in this case probably only having one
server won't be enough
so in this case we need to do horizontal
scaling or scaling out
horizontal scaling basically means
splitting the load between different
servers
it gives you scalability but also
reliability because you will have more
redundancy
and it's usually the preferred way to
scale when splitting into multiple
servers you need to take into
consideration if you have a state or not
if you don't have a state no problem you
can just put the different servers and
have a load balancer that will
direct the traffic to different servers
and that's it but if you have a state
then you will face the cap theorem
i won't talk about the cap theorem in
this video because it's a big topic on
itself
so we can simplify the services for
example making them a stateless
but the database or any storage service
will need to
face the consequences of the cap theorem
as i mentioned before when we're
thinking about horizontal scaling with
the state involved we need to face the
cap theorem
and this has certain implications for
the database for example
we need to consider the consistency
level that we need to have
but we need to have a strict consistency
that means that whenever you save
that data is immediately available for
everyone or can we have no eventual
consistency
basically that means that when you write
it will take some time
for all the clients reading the data to
get that
right we also need to think about if we
need to read more or
write more so depending on that we will
also take one approach or the other
horizontal scaling is not something
cheap to do so that's why it's very
important to get it as soon as possible
when you know that your system will grow
beyond
certain scale
[Music]
the different ways that you can achieve
horizontal scaling for example you can
have a load balancer
that will direct the traffic to
different servers to optimize the load
of performance
of the system in this case with the load
balancer we assume that all the servers
have access to the same data
then we can also split the data
so in that sense we can have charging or
partitioning where we split the data
between different servers
by splitting the data in multiple
servers you are able to
scale each of them independently many
systems work like this
for example a flink or kafka work like
this you can split the data
following different approaches for
example you can do a vertical split by
feature
or you can have by value let's say we
want to split the data between
america's user base europe and
asia or we can also do it by hash
so for example by hash you can imagine a
hash table
where we get the value that we want to
select in which
database is going to be stored in this
case let's say we have a user id so we
hash it
and we can say that depending on the
hash we will store it in one
bucket or the other in this case the
buckets are the databases
servers where it would be
then you can also scale this by using
consistent hashing but that's a topic
for another video
another thing that we can do with data
is to have replication
where we can have multiple copies of the
data in different servers
[Music]
replication is very useful when you have
read intensive
applications right so if you can
replicate the data between different
nodes and if you know that you're going
to read more then you can just use those
to read
and you can have eventual consistency to
update those nodes
following with this approach we end up
with this architecture
we still have a layer architecture where
we have horizontally scaled
our system so we have multiple nodes
handling the
load and also multiple nodes handling
the data
now millions of users can use our site
because we have been able to
split the load and the data between
different servers but this came up with
some trade-offs
it was expensive and the capturing had
to be considered
now that we have multiple servers
instead of having only one and
there is more latency between the calls
between different servers so that would
be making the system a little bit slower
it's what i mentioned in the first video
about sometimes there will be conflicts
between
some non-functional requirements and
others users are expecting to have fast
responses
we can also save a lot of resources and
make tons of money
if we're able to serve them faster can
we be faster
how can we do it check out my next video
to know more about that
that's it for today thank you very much
for watching if you like the video don't
forget to click like and subscribe
and of course share it with your friends
if you have any doubts or any comments
don't
forget to put them in the comment
section below thank you very much for
watching and see you next time